Q.Create a table test ( id integer fname character(30);
	
i) Add a column lname to the table test
	alter table test
	add column lname character(30);
	
ii) Rename the column name lname to last_name
	alter table test
	rename column lname to last_name;
	
iii) Add the constraint primary key to the column id
	alter table test
	add constraint id_pk primary key(id);
	
iv) Drop the column last_name
	alter table test
	drop column last_name;
	
v) Rename the table name to test1.
	alter table test
	rename to test1;

	
	QUERIES
	
1.Write a query which displays the module code and the duration for modules whose duration is less than 6.
	select modulecode, duration from MODULES 
	where duration < 6;
	
2.Write a query which will display the BATCHCODE, TRAINERID, COURSECODE, STARTDATE, CAPACITY and BATCHSTRENGTH of the batches handled by the trainer KRISHNAN.
	
	select b.batchcode, b.trainerid, b.coursecode, b.startdate, b.capacity, b.batchstrength
	from BATCHES b join TRAINERS tr
	on b.trainerid = tr.trainerid
	where tr.trainername = 'KRISHNAN';
	
3.Write a query which displays all the module names of the course code 100.
	select  mo.modulename
	from MODULES mo 
	join COURSEANDMODULES como on mo.modulecode = como.modulecode
	join COURSES co on co.coursecode = como.coursecode
	where co.coursecode = 100;

4.Write a query which displays the module names and course code for the course code 100.
	select  co.coursecode, mo.modulename
	from MODULES mo 
	join COURSEANDMODULES como on mo.modulecode = como.modulecode
	join COURSES co on co.coursecode = como.coursecode
	where co.coursecode = 100;

5."Write a query which will display the number of modules present in the course code 100. 
   Hint: display module name count with alias""NumberofModules"""
	
	select count(*) as NumberofModules from COURSEANDMODULES 
	where coursecode = 100;
	
6."Write a query which will display all the course code and the number of modules present 
	in that particular course.
	Hint: display module name count with alias""NumberofModules"""
	
	select coursecode, count(modulecode) as NumberOfModules
	from COURSEANDMODULES
	group by coursecode;
	
	
7.Write a query which will display the course title and fees which has the maximum fees.
	select title, fees 
	from COURSES
	order by fees desc limit 1;
	

8.Write a query which will display the student id, student name, batch code, place and phone number of the students who belongs to Batch '3001'.
	select * from STUDENTS 
	where batchcode = 3001;
	
		
9.Write a Query which will display the student ID, Student name, Batch code, place and phone number who are from CHENNAI.
	select * from STUDENTS
	where place = 'CHENNAI';
	
	
10.Write a query which displays the total number of modules which has less than 6 days duration. Hint: display total number of modules with'LESSTHANSIXDAYS' as alias.
	select count(*) as LESSTHANSIXDAYS
	from MODULES
	where duration < 6;
	

11.Write a query to display the batch code, course title, start date of the batches for the month of May and year 2012.
	select b.batchcode, co.title, b.startdate
	from BATCHES b join COURSES co
	on b.coursecode = co.coursecode
	where b.startdate>='2012-05-01' and b.startdate<='2012-05-31';


12.Write a query to display courses code, course title, course fees of the courses for which no batches/training has been planned in the month of January and year 2012.
    select b.coursecode, co.title,co.fees
    from BATCHES b join COURSES co using (coursecode)
    where b.startdate <'2012-01-01' or b.startdate >'2012-01-31';


13.Write a query which displays the names of all the modules of the course titled 'Oracle DBA'.
	select mo.modulename from
	COURSES co 
	join COURSEANDMODULES como
	on co.coursecode = como.coursecode
	join MODULES mo 
	on mo.modulecode = como.modulecode
	where co.title = 'Oracle DBA';


14.Write a Query which displays the student ID, Student name, Batch code, place and phone number of the student's who took training from CHENNAI in the year 2012.
	select s.studentid, s.studentname,b.batchcode,s.place,s.phone, b.startdate
	from STUDENTS s join BATCHES b
	on s.batchcode = b.batchcode
    where s.place = 'CHENNAI' 
	and b.startdate >='2012-01-01' and b.startdate<='2012-12-31';
	
	
15.Write a query which will display the student id, student names who are enrolled for the course code 200?
	select s.studentid, s.studentname
	from STUDENTS s join BATCHES b
	on s.batchcode = b.batchcode
	where b.coursecode = 200;
